## Exploratory data analysis coursera Course Project
This repository includes the files required to complete the Coursera assignment: Exploratory Plotting. The assignment consists in examining how household energy usage varies over a 2-day period in February, 2007. The task is to reconstruct 4 plots, using the base plotting system.

### The dataset
This assignment uses data from
the <a href="http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/">UC Irvine Machine
Learning Repository</a>. In particular,  the "Individual household
electric power consumption Data Set". 

* <b>Dataset</b>: <a href="https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/exdata%2Fdata%2Fhousehold_power_consumption.zip">Electric power consumption</a> [20Mb]

* <b>Description</b>: Measurements of electric power consumption in
one household with a one-minute sampling rate over a period of almost
4 years. Different electrical quantities and some sub-metering values
are available.


The following descriptions of the 9 variables in the dataset are taken
from
the <a href="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Individual+household+electric+power+consumption">UCI
web site</a>:

<ol>
<li><b>Date</b>: Date in format dd/mm/yyyy </li>
<li><b>Time</b>: time in format hh:mm:ss </li>
<li><b>Global_active_power</b>: household global minute-averaged active power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Global_reactive_power</b>: household global minute-averaged reactive power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Voltage</b>: minute-averaged voltage (in volt) </li>
<li><b>Global_intensity</b>: household global minute-averaged current intensity (in ampere) </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_1</b>: energy sub-metering No. 1 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the kitchen, containing mainly a dishwasher, an oven and a microwave (hot plates are not electric but gas powered). </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_2</b>: energy sub-metering No. 2 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the laundry room, containing a washing-machine, a tumble-drier, a refrigerator and a light. </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_3</b>: energy sub-metering No. 3 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to an electric water-heater and an air-conditioner.</li>
</ol>

### Plot1.R
R code reads the data in working directory and plots a histogram of the global active power measurments into a png file device

### Plot2.R
R code reads the data in working directory and plots a time-series plot over the course of 2 days (1/2/2007-2/2-2007) with the global active power measured every 4 minutes. It saves the plot into a png file. 

### Plot3.R
R code reads the data in working directory and plots the energy sub metering readings 1, 2 and 3 over the the course of 2 days (1/2/2007-2/2-2007). It saves the plot into a png file

### Plot4.R
R code reads the data in working directory and generates a grid figure with multiple time-series plots. Top left: global active power over time (1/2/2007-2/2-2007), top right: voltage over time (1/2/2007-2/2-2007), bottom left: energy sub meterings 1,2,3 over time (1/2/2007-2/2-2007), and global reactive power over time (1/2/2007-2/2-2007). It saves the figure into a png file

### Png plots
Png files containing the final plots generated by 1-4 R codes

